This study covers network applications in educational environment to analyze how real-life situations about
computer networks can be simulated for teaching in engineering courses.

Moreover, there is no internationally accepted tool/platform for simulating network applications in the lab sessions
of the computer networks courses. There are many tools on the Web for demonstrating network conditions to the
students in different ways. Students use those tools according to their preferences and just follow the directions given
to them by the instructor. As a result, interaction is limited and insufficient for reflecting the creativity of those
students.


->In our study, we tried to examine the effects of existing tools (applets, animations and simulations) on teaching of
computer networks in computer engineering curricula. Analysis of weekly lab performance scores showed us that
stcores students got in the university entrance exam for that yearudents learn better with involving in practical applications of computer networks.

->Students agreed that simulations are useful for them to apply theoretical knowledge on practical
applications and they asked for more lab sessions with more simulations provided.

->According to the scores of the lab performances and questionnaire results, it is clear that students
learn concepts of computer networks much better by actively using the related applets.

The main problem for the conduction of computer networks courses is that most of the existing computer labs at the
universities are not sufficient for teaching concepts and subjects of the course effectively. As a solution, animations
and applets are used during lab sessions for simulating the concepts of computer networks. This study aimed to show
the effects of applets on the learning activities of the computer engineering students.

Students’ performances for weekly lab sessions were analyzed and scores of 2007 - 2008, 2008 - 2009 and 2009-
2010 were compared to see the similarities and differences. According to results, students of 2009-2010 year were
better than others. This result was explained with the scores students got in the university entrance exam for that year.
Additionally, a questionnaire was applied at the end of every year for evaluating the students’ satisfaction about
animations and applets used for lab sessions. Questionnaire results showed that students were happy to be involved
in practical applications of computer networks subjects during lab sessions.

Results of this study showed that blending practical applications with theoretical parts of any subject domain during
the process of higher education of engineering may help for increasing the quality level of the graduates.




